So the first thing I'm going to do is
create a file in our code directory for
exercise for C.
And if we're talking about part one,
the first thing we wanted to do is switch
back to the markdown file,
is instantiate an array of scores.
The array should have at least five
elements of type float 64, and
then write a function that
calculates that average.
So in the solution here,
my function of average is going
to take a series of scores.
And that type signature indicates that
it's supposed to accept an array of five
elements, all of which are float 64,
and return a float 64 at the end.
In order to calculate the average,
I'm instantiating a total initial value
of 0.0 since we're working with a float.
And then we're using the range keyword to
iterate over all of the scores we get in,
add them to that total number.
And then at the end of the day,
we wanna return total divided by a float
64 version of however
many scores we passed in.
So using that len operator
on the scores argument.
So on the main function here,
I'm just gonna print line scores.
And then if we run our exercise so far.
We get an array of five scores,
which is because I am simply printing
out those scores on line 15.
So instead of doing that,
let's actually call the function
which is going to be average.
And then pass in that array of scores.
Run this one more time and
you get that result of 5.4.
Cool, so let's look at part two.
In part two, the first thing we wanted to
do was set up a map that contains a set of
pet names and
their corresponding animal type.
For instance, if we have a pet name
of Fido, it's set to a value of dog,
both of which are strings.
I'm gonna create a second
function underneath our average.
And this can keep everything in
the same file for this example,
and I'm gonna call it.
We'll hold off on that.
According to the actual exercise file,
the first thing we're trying to
do is define an initial map.
So let's do that first.
So I'm gonna keep this
outside of my main function,
and use the var keyword and
say, initial pets.
So I'm gonna set this equal to,
it's gonna be a map type.
The key is a string.
The value is also a string.
And that is going to be equal to
a map type with a key of string,
value of string, and then the curly braces
to insert some initial values here.
So let's throw in a few pets,
we've got Fido, that's a dog.
We've got Penelope, can be a horse.
And Nancy will be a cat.
[LAUGH] Cool, so we have our
initial pets array, map, excuse me.
Back in exercise 4C, we wanna write a
function that takes a string argument and
returns a Boolean indicating whether or
not that key exists in our map of pets.
So, all right, let's create a function.
I'm gonna call it, doesPetExist.
According to the instructions,
it's gonna take some sort of pet name,
that's a string type.
And it's gonna return a Boolean for
whether or
not that pet exists within our map.
So if you recall from
the lesson plan earlier,
looking up a key value pair in a map
will return two different values.
It will return the value if it exists.
And then that okay Boolean for
whether or not, I'm sorry,
the value of the actual
string if it exists.
And then an okay Boolean for
whether or not it's successfully
found that element within the map.
So I'm gonna set those two values
on the left-hand side here.
And then I'm gonna grab
my initial pets map, and
check to see if whatever pet name we pass
into this function exists within our map.
We'll return okay here.
And then because I'm not using this
value here, so I don't get an error,
I'll replace that with an underscore.
I'm gonna comment out the two lines
within our main that were from
the average array exercise.
And then we're going to say, okay,
let's say our pet name here is Fido.
And then let's check to see if pet exists.
I'm gonna set that as a variable and
assign it to a value of does pet exist,
and then pass it,
the pet name that we came up with for now.
And then let's just PrintLinePetExists.
Cool.
So we're getting true back
because we passed in Fido.
If I change this to Spot,
we'll get false.
And then last but not least here,
we'll look at that third part
that's looking at slices.
So part one of part three is
to instantiate a slice that
has an initial value of
a collection of groceries.
So back in our Go file.
I'm going to establish a new
set of groceries up here.
We're gonna call it initial groceries.
And it's going to be a slice of strings.
And we can do the inference bit here.
Because we are passing
in a series of strings,
Go is going to let us define the initial
values without having a specific number.
Because even though we're
still talking about a slice,
it can't instantiate an initial array
behind the scenes of the length that
we're passing it to begin with.
So here we have initial groceries which
is a slice set to a few groceries.
And then the second part here is to
write a function that takes one or
more groceries as strings.
And then append them to the slice,
printing out the resulting
list of groceries.
So this guy gets a tiny
bit more complicated.
We're not just passing in one thing,
we could potentially
be passing in another list of groceries
like three or four groceries.
So we're gonna have to do some iterating
to make sure that each of the groceries
gets appended to our
final groceries array.
So I'm gonna create a function
here called addGroceryToList.
It's gonna need two things.
Well, just gonna need one thing,
we're gonna need the new grocery
that we wanna add to our list which is
a set of an unknown number of strings.
So let's modify this variable to indicate
that it could be potentially more
than one thing.
So new groceries using the variadic
to indicate one or more strings.
And then at the end of the day,
we do want to return that slice
of strings as our final value.
So within addGrocery,
we need to do a couple things.
First I'm gonna establish that
right now our starting food variable
is going to be our initial groceries.
And then I'm gonna use the for loop, and
iterate over all of
the groceries we just passed in.
So for each new grocery,
we're missing the range keyword here.
For each new grocery I wanna reassign what
foods is and establish a new array, so
we're going to append whatever's
from that initial array of foods.
And then add on each individual new
grocery that we just want to put in
our slice.
And then because my function signature
here indicates that I do want
to return that whole slice of strings,
I will return foods.
In our main function,
we can comment out the existing code,
set a new variable to groceryList
Which is gonna be equal to
addGroceryToList, and lets say beets.
If I PrintLine.
You'll see that that single element
beets has been added to our list,
just to make sure it's behaving correctly.
What if we want beets and then maybe
some chocolate, maybe some wine.
You'll see that each of those things has
also been appended to our final array.